multi-page article to single page process for share application keys, testing SAML, and Upgrade SAML apps (#2638)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/saml-tracer/main/index.md

---
title: Testing SAML with SAML Tracer
excerpt: How to test SAML flows with the SAML Tracer Firefox extension
layout: Guides
---

This article explains how to test a SAML app implementation with the SAML Tracer browser add-on.

---

**Learning outcomes**

> * Installing and using SAML Tracer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Install and use SAML Tracer.
```

> * Creating SAML requests for SP- and IdP-initiated flows and inspecting them in SAML Tracer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create SAML requests for SP- and IdP-initiated flows and inspect them in SAML Tracer.
```

**What you need**

> * A SAML app to test (see [Building a SAML SSO integration](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/saml2/before-you-begin/) for more information on creating one).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A SAML app to test (see [Building a SAML SSO integration](/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/saml2/before-you-begin/) for more information on creating one).
```

**Sample code**

n/a

---

## Overview

> Once you have completed the SAML configuration, you can test your implementation using SAML tracer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you complete the SAML configuration, you can test your implementation using SAML tracer.
```

> SAML tracer is an add-on in Firefox and very useful when troubleshooting SAML for service provider-initiated flows (SP-initiated)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAML tracer is an add-on in Firefox and very useful when troubleshooting SAML for Service Provider-initiated flows (SP-initiated)
```

> or identity provider-initiated flows (IdP-initiated).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or Identity Provider-initiated flows (IdP-initiated).
```

> SAML responses are signed, and contain the profile attributes of the person who requested access to the app, as set in the General tab of the administrator UI.

Reviewer: I'm taking the last part out. It makes absolutely no sense and not sure why it was added in the first place. 
```suggestion
SAML responses are signed and contain the profile attributes of the person who requested access to the app. 
```
